{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset1 Segoe UI Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs32\lang9                                   Module (html) 1\par
\b\lang1033 Q-1 \f1\lang9 Are the HTML tags and elements the same thing?\par
\b0\f2\u10146?\f0 No, HTML tags and elements are not the same thing.\par
\par
\b\lang1033 Q-2\f1\lang9  What are tags and attributes in HTML?\par
\b0\f2\u10146?\f0  HTML tags are used to define the structure of a web page. \par
They are enclosed in angle brackets and consist of a tag name. \par
HTML attributes provide additional information about HTML \par
elements. They are always specified in the start tag and usually \par
come in name/value pairs like: name="value".\par
\par
\b\lang1033 Q-3 What are the void element in HTML?\f1\lang9\par
\b0\f2\u10146?\f0  Void elements are elements in HTML that cannot have any \par
child nodes (i.e., nested elements or text nodes). Void elements \par
only have a start tag; end tags must not be specified for void \par
elements.\par
\par
\b\lang1033 Q-4\f1\lang9  What are HTML Entities?\par
\b0\f2\u10146?\f0  Html entities are used to display reserved characters,special \par
characters or invisible characters.\par
\par
\b\lang1033 Q-5\f1\lang9  What are different types of lists in HTML?\par
\b0\f2\u10146?\f0  There are three types of lists in html,there are:-\par
1. Ordered list or Number list.\par
2. Unordered list or bullet list.\par
3. Description list or definition list.\par
\par
\b\lang1033 Q-6\f1\lang9  What is the \lquote class\rquote  attribute in HTML?\par
\b0\f2\u10146?\f0  The class attribute is used to specify one or more class names \par
for an element. The class attribute is mostly used to point to a \par
class in a style sheet.\par
\par
\b\lang1033 Q-7\f1\lang9  What is the difference between the \lquote id\rquote  attribute and the \par
\f0\lang1033 '\f1\lang9 class\rquote  attribute of HTML elements?\par
\b0\f2\u10146?\f0  The id and class attributes are used to specify the style and \par
behavior of HTML elements, but they have different purposes \par
and behaviors:\par
\b 1. Id Attribute: \b0 The id attribute is used to identify a unique \par
HTML element on a web page. It should be unique within the \par
entire HTML document. The id attribute is often used in \par
JavaScript and CSS to style and manipulate specific HTML \par
elements. For example, you might use an id attribute to identify \par
a specific section of a webpage that you want to highlight with a \par
particular color or font size. An id attribute can be used only \par
once within a single HTML document.\par
\b 2 .Class Attribute: \b0 The class attribute is used to specify a group \par
of HTML elements that share the same style or behavior. \par
Multiple elements in HTML can have the same class value, and \par
a single HTML element can have multiple class values. The \par
class attribute is often used in CSS to apply styles to groups of \par
HTML elements. For example, you might use a class attribute to \par
specify a set of links that all share the same background color or \par
font size.\par
\par
\b\lang1033 Q-8 \f1\lang9 What are the various formatting tags in HTML?\par
\b0\f2\u10146?\f0  There are several formatting tags in HTML. Some of the \par
most commonly used formatting tags are:\par
b [tag is for bold text]\par
em [tag is for italicized text]\par
u [tag is for underlined text]\par
sup [tag is for superscript text]\par
sub [tag is for subscript text]\par
\par
\b\lang1033 Q-9\f1\lang9  How is Cell Padding different from Cell Spacing?\par
\b0\f2\u10146?\f0  Cell padding is the space between the cell content and its \par
border. It is defined using the cellpadding attribute of the tag.\par
Cell spacing is the space between two adjacent cells in a table. It \par
is defined using the cellspacing attribute of the tag.\par
\par
\b\lang1033 Q-10\f1\lang9  How can we club two or more rows or columns into a \par
single row or column in an HTML table?\par
\b0\f2\u10146?\f0 You can merge two or more rows or columns into a single \par
row or column in an HTML table by using the rowspan and \par
colspan attributes.\par
1. The rowspan attribute is used to merge or combine the number\par
of cells in a row.\par
2. The colspan attribute is used to merge column cells in a table.\par
\par
\b\lang1033 Q-11 \f1\lang9 What is the difference between a block-level element and \par
an inline element?\par
\b0\f2\u10146?\f0  1.Block-level elements always start on a new line and take up \par
the full width available.\par
2. Inline elements do not start on a new line and only take up as \par
much width as necessary.\par
\par
\b\lang1033 Q-12 \f1\lang9  How to create a Hyperlink in HTML?\par
\b0\f2\u10146?\f0 To create a hyperlink in HTML, you can use the <a> element. \par
The <a> element stands for \ldblquote anchor,\rdblquote  and it is used to create a \par
hyperlink to another web page or a specific location on the same \par
page.\par
Click here to visit module: 2 (html)\par
\par
\b\lang1033 Q-13 \f1\lang9 What is the use of an iframe tag?\par
\b0\f2\u10146?\f0 The HTML <iframe> tag specifies an inline frame. An inline \par
frame is used to embed another document within the current \par
HTML document.\par
\par
\b\lang1033 Q-14 \f1\lang9 What is the use of a span tag? Explain with example?\par
\b0\f2\u10146?\f0 The HTML (span) tag is an inline container used to mark up a \par
part of a text or a part of a document.\par
Example : <p> My mother has <span>\par
style="color:blue"=blue</span> eyes.</p>\par
\par
\b\lang1033 Q-15\f1\lang9  How to insert a picture into a background image of a web \par
page?\par
\b0\f2\u10146?\f0  To insert a picture into a background image of a web \par
page, you can use the CSS background-image property. \par
You can specify the background image in the <style> \par
element, in the <head> section.\par
\par
\b\lang1033 Q-16 \f1\lang9 How are active links different from normal links?\par
\b0\f2\u10146?\f0 an active text or graphic link on a Web page. Clicking the \par
link redirects the user to another Web page or a document \par
or image. Live links are also placed into email, allowing \par
recipients of the message to immediately go to a website or \par
open an attached document or image.\par
The default color for normal and active links is blue. Some \par
browsers recognize an active link when the mouse cursor is \par
placed over that link; Others recognize active links when the \par
link has the focus. Those that don't have a mouse cursor over \par
that link is considered a normal link.\par
\par
\b\lang1033 Q-17 \f1\lang9 What are the different tags to separate sections of text?\par
\b0\f2\u10146?\f0 There are different tags that can be used to separate \par
sections of text. The <br> tag is one way to separate the \par
lines of text.\par
\par
\b\lang1033 Q-18 \f1\lang9 What is SVG?\par
\b0\f2\u10146?\f0  Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) is an XML-based vector \par
image format for defining two-dimensional graphics, \par
having support for interactivity and animation. \par
\par
\b\lang1033 Q-19\f1\lang9  What is difference between HTML and XHTML?\par
\b0\f2\u10146?\f0  The main difference between HTML and XHTML is that \par
XHTML is a stricter and more standardized version of HTML. \par
XHTML is based on XML, which means that it has a stricter \par
syntax compared to HTML.\par
XHTML requires that all tags be closed properly and that all \par
elements be nested correctly.\par
\par
\b\lang1033 Q-20 \f1\lang9 What are logical and physical tags in HTML?\par
\b0\f2\u10146?\f0  Physical and Logical tags are used in HTML for better \par
visibility and understanding of the text by the user on the \par
web page. However, both tags differ from each other as \par
suggested by their names. Logical tags are used to tell the \par
browser what kind of text is written inside the tags.\par
}
 